initiating startup sequence
hi I'm tool dude Tony I'd like to
welcome you to another episode of how to
fix no no one you know that reminds me
the riskiest thing ever said on
television back in the early 60s was by
a June Cleaver when she said hey Ward
you were a little hard on a beaver last
night
well Harry I've got a leaky roof and
here's what here's the problem right
here I'll show you
okay see right here got a main roof
comes down and there's this roof over
the deck well the way they laid the
shingles in and did the connections
between the two roofs created a valley
area right there which caused a leak
that went right down into my kitchen
screwed things up not good well on
today's episode on how to fix one on one
I'm gonna show you how to fix a leaky
roof we've got to get all these old
nails staples out of this thing
this is what this is what was connecting
the two rooms together worthless hey
it's a pretty productive day today I was
able to tear off every place where the
roof was damaged and replaced the board
that goes along between where this deck
roof meets the real roof of the house so
I pulled this off I'm going to run the
ice and Stumbler to run the ice and
storm shield up this at least eight
inches get a good seal on this thing
before we welcome to day two well as you
can see it's a little overcast today had
little surprise last night went in about
six o'clock called it good it's gonna
you know get cleaned up get something to
eat
took a look at the forecast and all of a
sudden they predicted rain go figure
well I had the roof wide open at that
point so that wasn't going to work so I
got back up on the roof last night about
seven o'clock with a portable light out
here and was able to do a lot of the
work to get this thing sealed up there
was no way that I can leave this thing
in its open state as I showed you
yesterday okay so with rain in the
forecast definitely needed to get this
membrane back on sorry I don't have a
video to show you how to do it but I can
show you what I did
but basically I started down here at the
at this bottom row with that storm and
ice shield this stuff is great it's peel
and stick it's easy to work with and
it's got a sand kind of a texture on the
outside that makes real easy to work
with I layered it up just like you would
shingles starting with the first row and
overlap the second row by about six
three to six inches I sealed it up all
around this thing put the lead cap back
on sealed it in again shingled style
layering to make sure that it didn't
leak and it didn't leak I highly
recommend this stuff okay now today I've
already laid the flashing back in she's
going to use some new aluminum flashing
but then I took a look at the old
flashing and it's actually a steel
galvanized and it's in great shape so I
put it back up and as you can see it is
over the membrane so there is no way
that the water is going to get in behind
here into the wall at least not from
here so you start with getting the
shingles put down right now
and my bottom shingle in place so I can
push this down over makes a nice tight
seal over the top of it so I don't waste
a bunch of shingles cutting them up
I made this pattern that fits around
this fits around the top of this vent
seal I'll use this to cut the shingle
hey that's it
get the shingle cut out for you shake
went right around in there perfect now
the water will come down on the old
shingles just run right down past this
don't leer like it's supposed to be
perfect
well that's it for today I didn't get as
far as I would but I got a lot done
and I know it's done right got stuff
glued in place I've got it nailed in
place I've been able to integrate the
new shingles into the old so uh finish
up tomorrow still have this section to
go here I may tear off some of that up
up even higher and just keep going I
haven't decided but this is definitely
not going to leak I got looking at this
this roof up here above where I was
fixing it and decided that it's probably
a good thing to just go ahead and pull
this on off - and with it off you can
tell that the they didn't do a very good
job with the belt underneath so this is
a mess
stuff won't stick lets her nice and dust
free hey Doc
okay this was a productive day got a lot
done
get all the courses in got everything
done except for the cap row across the
top I need to go by that I also put in a
new vent on the top see it up there this
one's actually spinning the last time I
put one in it didn't quite spin well I
think it has to do it being level so hey
learn from that make sure it's level
before you nail it in okay this is good
and finally put on the hip ridge cap row
I will finish this off
well and that's it
roofs back in place everything's fixed
it's all looking really good just like
yeah like nothing ever happened
it's just the way you want it well I'm
tool dude Tony I'd like to thank you for
watching another episode of how to fix
your 101 remember if you want to see
other videos on how to fix other shop
like my youtube channel youtube.com
slash tool dude Tony and remember if
you're not fixing it yourself you're
paying somebody else to fix it so get
out there and fix something ok so what I
was saying was uh yeah boys I say uh
this one I know this is great
can you see me and I'm oh that kills me
ow yeah getting old sucks ok
I've been doing my cap my rope insurance
company oh there's another one I love to
it yeah insurance company yeah read
between the light Oh check this set on a
nail
see there wasn't my pants that hurts